Prologue:

	"I have come to you, wanderer, in this dark time. I know what it is you seek, and I can show you the way. The spell has been cast, but your fate is not certain yet. I will give you fair warning, then you must decide for yourself if what I offer is worth the price.

The tormented lands are the realm of the ancient  gods, the dead and the dying their only worshippers. Now sleeping and long abandonded by their followers, each have left their lands to fall into ruin. There are five ruined gates in this world, five portals to the tombs of the dead ones, hidden from view. They cast the veil between our world and theirs. 

The journey to the gates is far, and each one you must enter. You see for me to give you what you seek, you must bring me something in return. We will make a deal, you will enter the gates of the gods, and you will return me their blackened souls. Across the twisted oasis with it's spoiled water and waning flora you will find the Gate Of The Black Water. Then to the steppe and the Gate of the Frozen Plains, endless fields wrapped in razored grass, you shal find no shelter there. Surviving this you must cross the valley of ruins, where timeless monuments watch over mortal souls, and where the Gate of the Ruined World stands impervious to the weathering of time. From the ruins  you will come to the great defiles, a natural labyrinth carved by rain over the centuries, deep within you will find the Gate of Penance. Then to the end you come, to the wastelands that stretch on to the end of time, to the Gate of the Black World, where I will wait for you. 

Be wary, pilgrim, for as I have said these lands are transient and wicked. You see, there is a storm- the last trick of a cruel father. It sweeps away the unwary and the unwise, it comes for those who linger and wander without purpose. So dally not, even when hope seems lost, you must stay persistant. Do not start a journey you have no intention of finishing, Wanderer."
	- The Necromancer

Oasis Dialogue:

And so I awake in the oasis. The shade found me in my darkest moments, knowing what my heart seeks. It has shown me how to find it.
I have not told you why I am here, in a lost place where only evil will tread. But I will, in time.
So strange are Oases, a bloom of life, thriving below the burning sun, where no life should be found.
There was a time when I could fill myself with the life of the trees, to walk amongst the bowers of the forests and feel supple sunshine upon my skin.
But death has come to this place, it has withered the roots of the trees, and turned the canopy above into a pale shroud.
Even the water is tainted, potable only to the skeletal things that live here.
There is a curse here, I can see it in the unnatural green of the dead leaves and hear it churring of carrion insects.
Even the air is tainted. It threatens to bring me to my knees with every staggered breath.
I utter a prayer under my breath to ward away the malady in the air, but to no effect, there is no one to listen here.

Chapter 1 (Introduction to The Wanderer):

It is those of us who face despair who find ourselves in these wild lands. I will tell you the of darkness that I face. I had someone once, but like the vigour of my youth she was taken from me. Her blood was spent on the dry soils of the earth. For a long time I was lost, wandering the world of the living without hope. But then her voice came to me in the Darkness, she told me I would find her at the edge of the world, where the veil is thinnest, and where the living and the dead may cross without barrier. We can be together again, she said, and I can only believe her.

Now all that was us is behind me as I run from the that which is the fate of all things, following the wisdom of my shade. I know there are things in the great wilderness ahead, ancient things that rest amongst the ruins of dead gods and wasted civilisations. There are others who roam and dwell together in solitude, searching for whatever thing holds their hearts the tightest.

I hear the storm every moment of my waking hours, sometimes it is the funeral rattle of sand in my ears, or the wailing of the wind over my head. It comes with the regularity of the tide, threatening its primordial power to sweep clean we devils who look for that which we cannot have. The ceaseless approach of the dust and wind counts down my life, one heartbeat at a time. Everything here seethes at me reaching into me with shadowy claws, desperately clawing at the sanity I cling to just as hard. This is why my quest is so dire, in my search for lost love the land taunts me with an early grave. Though I do not believe death can find me here, no, it is I who will stare down the face of oblivion.

Steppe Dialogue:

Chapter 2 (Denial):

I am thrown from the gate, back into reality. But the world has changed, where there was sand and the trickle of dark water, there is now a carpet of low grass, barely clinging to frozen earth. A bitter wind cries shrilly through the scattered pines and tors. The camp is gone, along with the looming black gate of the desert lake. In it's place stand two spindly poles, as the Shade told me, this is the second gate, the gate of cruelty. Cruel it looks indeed, it's thin staves are cold to the touch, and covered in sharpened rivulets.

If there was any doubt that I have come to a desolate world, it is gone now. Looking around me I see nothing but endless rolling hills, capped with blasted rock, and whatever shrubland can survive. The wind carries the braying sounds of unknown animals, and the stench of rot, undeniably from others who have passed this way.

In the whispers of the wind I can hear her dying words. I will never forget those last moments  of her life. She looked to me as I held her in my arms, and she said she was sorry. I told her not to be sorry, for we would find eachother again in time. As the words left my lips her eyes widened with fear. She wept deeply, her tears falling to the ground below, mingling with her blood before sinking into the earth below. Her breath came slowly now, deeply, but in ragged bursts. I could not tell if she were awake, but I spoke to her all the same. I told her of all the things we had done, and all the good memories that I would soon bear alone. Her eyes opened again, for the last time, and she said again, to me, that she was sorry. 

She did not die well, she was not ready, and it was not a peaceful death. But it came then, and it came suddenly. I remember the feeling well, like the colour of the world was drained away and only a grey purgatory remained. Loneliness swallowed me as all semblance of my past life drifted into memory. Since then I have wandered alone, wasting my years searching for a way to bring her back to life, or for that dark passage that would reunite us beyond the veil.

Ruins Dialogue:

Chapter 3 (Anger):

Defiles Dialogue:

Chapter 4 (Sorrow):

Wasteland Dialogue:

Chapter 5 (Acceptance):

Epilogue:

Character Stories

Compassion - The Villain
Suffering - The Deserter
Rage - The Beast
Empathy - The Watcher
Curiosity - The Wanderer
Hatred - The Protector
Despair - The Hunter
Complacency - The Ghost
Regret - The Father

The Protector

I used to have a family like you. I remember them well, my wife, Mary, and my daughter, Anna. We lived in a safe place, one of the last safe places in the world. We had fields of crops, running water, and miles of woodland. We did our best to get along, some of us had been born there, others were wanderers we took in from the wastes. There were those of us, myself included, who felt that letting outsiders in was dangerous. There were terrible stories that made their way to us. Stories of barbarism, murder, men killing each other over water. We worried that our haven would be found. With every parched raider passing, every bleached wastelander that stumbled by, my fear grew. Sometimes I would lay awake nights on end, starting at every crack, rustle, and hoot. You could see division growing among us, some wouldn’t look at me- they knew my mind, and in the eyes of the others I could see my own thoughts reflected back at me. One day a mad man found his way to us, at first he seemed like another sorry soul, but as soon as night fell he took one of our women. He was silent, we only found her body in the morning. The moment her blank stare found mine I knew what had to be done. I scoured the village for him, the man beast who took us for fools, and when I found him I crushed his bones beneath my feet. As the echoes of his screams died out I realised what had been done. We were split, forever divided. My friends drove the other outsiders into the forest, never to be seen again. Many of us fought one another, others fled. I searched for my family, to protect them, to say sorry. But I knew they had left, whether because of me or to escape the insanity I provoked I will never know. Since then I have been searching for them. I know it is futile. Too many years have passed, years that have turned that safe haven into sand and shelter to ruins. Still I am driven on, by my love and by my hate. I know I will find them, in this life, or in the next.

A little too long

The Ghost

Things weren’t always this way. I recall I time before the winds were dry and laden with ash, a time when we would welcome the sight of another, rather then recoil at the fear of danger. Sometimes it’s hard to say if it was all a dream, a misrememberance of my childhood. I prefer to think we are in a dream now, because even then we would one day wake up, even if now we have to live in this nightmare. I don’t know if I had a family, I must have done, though they are long dead by now I assume. Wandering is all I know, going from place to place, there is so much that has been left undone in this world. I find newspapers, books, diaries, strange devices that sputter with light and sound but go dark before long, never to wake. Happily I find myself without sadness in these dying days. I have no remorse or incomplete doings, none to to weep for, and nothing to rejoice. My only lament is my lack of feeling, though I’m sure you envy my stagnant mind. What little memories I have are no more real to me than scribblings in a book. There are those who call my a ghost, because that is who I am, a ghost in this purgatory, drifting lifelessly through an equally lifeless plane. I will follow you though, though like a leaf on a breeze I do not know why. I assure you I do not fear death, for I cannot truly call my existence life.

The Beast

Eternally I rage on, through red dust and dark fire. Enemies I have none, yet mercilessly I cut down those before me. You however, you I will spare. There is a dark shadow I see on your soul, a side you cannot see, that blinds you in your most passionate moments. A beast that howls and screams, taunting you to let it free. It is in all of us, a monster lurking beneath your civil self. Only I have controlled it. You see it is not a demon that takes over us, it is not some foreign horror that overpowers, or a contagion that clouds your thoughts. The beast is a reflection of you, it is the inversion of your conscious mind. It does the bidding of your true emotions, if you’ll let it. There is no greater power in this world than the unchained beast. The weight that burdens others in these pallid years is a pedestal that raises me up above others. Come! Revel in your freedom, shirk the shackles of civilisation and sate your need for blood. Do not care for the other, do not pity them for they would do the same to you. You will free them of their duties on this earth. Perhaps they will go to the halls of their heroes, or perhaps only blackness awaits. It is not for us to know, but we will find out. Go, allow the wolf within you to burst forth, break the weak, conquer the strong, and if you should fall you shall know that it was in glorious rage that your fire was snuffed, do not allow it instead to whimper and fail in the darkening of the night.

The Villain

Atop the highest pinnacle of an ancient rig a man sat upon his throne. He made sure he was above all others, able to see for miles and miles around. Many worked for him, some dug at the ground beneath their feet, others were there for his pleasure. Every month, in an attempt to show his humanity, he would gather his people, and select one to bestow a great gift upon. He would take them out of the settlement in his great vehicle, far beyond the horizon, to a place no-one saw or knew about. The people of the settlement lived for this great gift, they would praise his name in the hopes that one day they too would be able to go to the paradise. One day a mother and her child came before the warlord. With croaking voices they begged him to leave. And so he laid his great hand upon them, and spoke the words they most desired to hear. The others watched on longingly, some wept, whilst others cursed in frustration. The mother and her child descended with him. Deep through the the great machine they went, down to the salty floor below. He beckoned for them to enter the vehicle, and begin their journey to salvation. It was far, to go beyond the bounds that confined them. The self-proclaimed king spoke not a word, and gave them not a glance. He allowed them supplies to sate their moaning bellies and quench their dry throats. Days passed, the warlord driving without sleep, before they finally stopped. Before them was a great plain. Their breath was stolen from them as they gazed upon miles and miles of grassland. So flat it was that it would drive the mind to madness if one were to gaze at it long enough. The mother started to weep, for she knew that despite the rivers that ran through the land, despite the green fields that beckoned to her, she knew it was as hostile to life as any desert. She knew that this would be the end. She turned to the driver, imploring him to return them home. But he refused, in his mind this was a paradise, how could anyone refuse this great green place. ‘You cannot go back’ he said. For if they were to return the magic would be shattered for his people. They would be crushed by the reality of the world. Suddenly the woman spun round, digging her fingers deep into his forearms, running them down his flesh in long red streaks. He screamed out in pain and pushed her to the ground. Blood spilling onto the blinding white floor, immediately absorbed by the grateful earth. He ran back to his car, started the engine, and drove away as he tried to tend to his wounds. Glancing up, he saw her in the mirror, still on the floor, a mask of anger worn upon her face. As they grew smaller he knew his reign had ended. He could not give hope to his people, not now that the veil had been lifted from his eyes. And so exiled himself into the desert. His compassion towards his people blinded him to the reality of his actions. To this day he carries those scars, a reminder that we are all equal in the dust.
