1. What happened to the world

You have questions, no doubt, about this place. Once upon a time there was light in the presence of the darkness that now lingers, life in the place of death. I could not say how long ago that was, for when you have seen the life of a world fail before your eyes the absolute passage of time wavers and bends, decades become hours, and hours become centuries. 

Imagine, if you can, the lands behind you carpeted in green, the sun high and white in the azure sky, and the brush of the cool breeze on your skin. This was my reality all those years ago. When we first opened our eyes and looked upon the virgin lands our creators had given us we wept with gratitude. For we had been given life and placed amongst life. Naturally, we worshipped the five as gods at first. How could we not, for they had created the heavens and the earth for us, formed it from primordial clay and given as a gift of unconditional love. In the beginning they walked among us, taught us to use tools, to grow our crops and manipulate the land to our needs. Soon five great dominions rose up, each a reflection of the virtues of its god. Our respect for our gods changed, there were fewer worshippers, as we realised that although we did not possess the power to manipulate the world as they did, we had ingenuity, and with it the technology to adapt the land as we needed. 

Slowly worship turned to respect as the innocent love of a child turns to a deeper compassion in adulthood. And so the five lessened their presence in the world, occasionaly offering the sage advice in councils, or to aid those in need. Soon enough their names turned to legend, their deeds and words known only by word of mouth and written text. They were not gone however, they watched over us, sometimes to be seen fleetingly as a face in the crowd, or as a solitary ranger in the quiet places of the world. We advanced without them, with glass and steel surpassing rock and mortar, light and power replacing fire and horses. 

Then one day, when the tales of the five were told only to young children, they left us. It was felt as a collective shock in all living things, a primal force, a force that unchained all the black things that live inside us. Suddenly we knew anger, and fear, and jealousy. It was as if all the virtues we knew had been usurped by their dark counterparts. Animals we had walked amongst peacefully reared up, striking and biting at those who came near, so we shackled them, placed chains around their necks and beat those who would not yield. Chains we also placed on those who coveted what was not theirs, who took from others what they did not own, and who inflicted pain without reason. Even our collective culture was changed, suddenly those who lived in the forests saw the wealth of the mountain dwellers and they wanted it. 

It was then that the foundries of the world were lit, and machines of war spewed out like a metal tide. The earth was scorched, the land churned and blasted over years. Our great cities fell to ruins, yet still the fighting endured. Those who were too afraid to fight retreated to the wildnerness, to found sanctuaries far from the influence of sin. It was over the coming years that the my world fell and our race scattered across the world. Of the animals we ate the weak and the slow. Those that remained grew ever more hateful of humanity, and their hatred was carried down through the generations. It was not only their minds that changed, but their forms. Their bodies became gaunt, their limbs long and thin, their eyes slits, and their skin thick. They became as much a danger to us as others of our kind. Then the plants were changed too, the trees lost their leaves and grew pale, the bushes and the vines were envenomed, and their fruit grew large and tempting. Their roots spread far under the ground, seeking out the corrupted soil and failing water that fed them. 

Even the heavens changed, the sun grew large and became as red as blood, hanging lower in the sky with every passing day. The grasses failed, and the bones of the land were revealed. The great pine forests of the mountains died away with the waterfalls, leaving a tortured world of bare rock and jagged peaks. The seas became salted and dry, turning to great plains of salt. The leviathans of the deep spawned limbs and crawled within the salty cracks, seeking whatever would sate their hunger, endlessly, greedily seeking. Then between these lands the deserts advanced, slowly at first, then ever faster. When once we were able to travel freely between the five dominions, we found ourselves trapped on five islands in a sea of sand. It is in this dying world that I have waited for the one who would return the gods to the realm of the living, and rid us of the corruption that stole our splendour all those years ago. 

Now you know why we are here, but there is more to tell. As the war that broke the world was coming to a close, as the engines of war ground their gears to dust, and the last cowards threw down their weapons and fled, something new was born. Those who could suppress the darkness within them came together. They formed a group, and called themselves the mystics. They watched the fall of the world, studied the changes in the sky and the land, and they found there was more to the fall than anyone had realised. The gods, they ascertained, had an ability to manipulate something latent in the world. Their presence alone kept it stable. But in their absence it had no master, nothing to maintain it and keep it from tearing the world apart, and so it latched on to whatever it could, tried to normalise itself again. What it found was the desires of man, all the hidden things we keep deep within ourselves, and it magnified them. It took form in anger and hatred and vileness. 

It was the mystics who realised that with intent the essence could be used, though there were few alive that were able. They vowed to find a way to use the essence to bring about the return of the gods, and in doing so prevent the essence from spreading absolutely through the land. It was they who built the gates to connect the five dominions when the deserts consumed the lands between. They were able to pass through the realm of shadow in which the essence resides, to spread their knowledge througout the world, and to find one with the mastery to control the essence. But they never found one. The order of the mystics dwindled as the needs of survival became more demanding. They realised that soon they would be no longer, and that the fate of the world would indeed be sealed, and so they performed a final ritual. One among them was chosen. Together they used all their arcane knowledge, their bodies, and their blood, and they sacrificed themselves for the one who was chosen. They imbued her with their strength and their resolve, to grant her immortal life and steadfast will. It was then that I was born anew, from old flesh I became the necromancer, destined to raise our people from the dead. And here I have waited, alone for countless sunsets, for you.
