The dark world was ruled by 5 gods- Hope, Love, Compassion, Determination, and Reason. Each god ruled over their own part of the world, and each part was connected. The world itself was both real and unreal, it could not be reached from anywhere in time or space, but was as physical as any other part of reality. The gods chose to bring plants, animals, and men to populate their realms, working together to promote their growth. The extents of their worlds grew vast as the civilisations of men flourished under the domains of the gods. Some worshipped the gods, and the gods liked this, but as they developed and found science, the worshippers diminished, the gods found themselves unnecessary, without purpose. Their power was not limitless, and they would not bring themselves to cause harm to men. They chose to retreat into darkness, into death, leaving only good memories in the societies of the world. They did not realise, however, that without their presence the essence of the world would not be the same. The essence was used by the gods to shape the world, to mould things to fit how they believed they should be. Without the gods to contain the essence, it found a place in the minds of men. But their minds were not like those of the gods, instead of form and beauty, nightmares stirred up by the deepeest primal fears were born. The civilisations fell, leaving their wreckage in the dirt of the dying world around them. Crops failed, and so man turned on beast for food. But animals were not immune to the effects of the essence, contorting them into violent, spiny creatures. Man was forced to retreat, his numbers dwindling, amongst the ruins of his ancestors. But he persisted, surviving on the murky waters and vivid fruits that grip to life. Eventually the five kingdoms of the gods started to become separated, as great deserts of sand, ice, dirt, and fire, invaded the uninhabited places of the world. And so five tribes were formed, each dedicated to their lands. The tribes became a part of the world, essence ran through the blood of newborns, and a line of mystics was formed. They dedicated their lives to use essence, to manipulate it in order to bring back the gods and restore life to the world. They built the 5 gates, allowing those who were able to travel between the 5 kingdoms, at the price of blood. One was chosen to become a watcher, one who could bring others to the dark world, and show them the way to the land of the dead, to restore the gods. He became known as the necromancer, for he alone could see beyond the world of the living. When the ritual was complete, the sacrifice made, and the necromancer created, there were none left of the mystics. Only the necromancer remained, waiting, listening out across dimensions for the spell which would summon him. The hardened marauders and deep settlments of the world would live on, outside of time, until the day came for the gods to be reawokened.

The lands of the gods are now a reflection of the qualities of their namesake:
Hope -> Despair
Love -> Hate
Compassion -> Cruelty
Determination -> Indifference
Reason -> Madness

where did the world come from? 
is it a splinter of reality? 
is it accessible from our world? 
is it imaginary? 
is it part of our mind?
who are the 5 gods?
what do they represent?
are they real gods, or are they the embodiment of parts of our mind?
do the gods have messengers? 
do they have a presence in the world?

who are the nightmares? 
do they come from within? 
are they a manifestation of our fear, somehow given body by the dreams of the gods?

are the gods buried? 
are they dead? 
where are they located?

Though the gods cannot truly die, they are in eternal rest in the land beyond the veil.

is the nightmare world real? 

The nightmare world is both real and unreal, it is where the gods rest, and where the mind travels when we sleep. In the dark world it is a land of monsters, and can be accessed directly via the 5 gates, or indirectly through sleep. Monsters from the nightmare world can cross into the physical world around temples containing mystic relics .

how do the gates take you there, why can you access them from the temples?

who put the temples there? 
are they to worship the gods? 
are they why the gods have fled?

why is the world in ruins? 
is it a lack of attention from the gods? 
or is this how it always was?

what is the storm? 
who does it come to?
why does it exist? 
is it real?

The storm follows the wanderer, as he is a vassal of the necromancer, he acts as a beacon. The quasi-intelligence of essence wants him dead so he cannot bring back the gods.

why do the gates open? 
who is in the gates? 
what are the idols? 

The idols are the essence's manifestation of the god's dreams. Each gate contains an idol, and when each idol is destroyed the soul of the god is released.

are they part of the gods? 
are they the 'good' parts of the gods, part of their dreams that fights against the nightmares? 
why did the nightmares take over?

who is the wanderer? 
where did he come from? 
why did he perform the ritual to summon the necromancer? 
why is the necromancer the custodian of the world? 
is he part of the gods? 
are they his temples? 
is he trying to kill the gods? 
is he trapped here?

The wanderer is a man from another dimension. Where does not concern us. We know that he lost his wife in some kind of battle, so it is implied that he comes from another wasted world. After her death he became a holy pilgrim, wandering his world to plead with his gods to bring her back. He unknowingly performed the ritual to summon the necromancer when, stricken by his grief, he attempted to take his own life in order to be with his wife. He is trapped in the dark land until either he dies, or he wakes the gods from their slumber.

what happens to the dead? 
do they go to heaven? 
does heaven exist?

Heaven and hell do not exist, only this world has gods, and even they are not true gods. The dead die, and do not return. The wanderer will learn of the failure of religion, and will be forced to accept the death of his wife, and his own. The gods are gone, and cannot be brought back, so the eventual doom of the dark world mirrors that of his own mortality.

who are the other people who wander the world? 
how can people live here? 
why do people live here? 
where do they live?

why are there weapons, armour, trinkets, etc? 
how old is this place? 
have there been civilisations before? 
is the world timeless?

why are there 5 regions? 
what is outside the 5 regions? 
where did the taint come from? 
why is so much affected by it? 
is it intrinsic to the world?

why did the wanderer turn to the necromancer? 
did he hear about the necromancer? 
what was the ritual? 
how did the necromancer find him? 
did he find the necromancer?

how far is the world? 
what are the animals that live there?

what is essence and salt? 
why do weapons need essence to function? 
why do humans drop salt? 
why is the sun red? 

who are the other characters? 
do they live here? 
were they born here? 
what are they seeking? 
what do they represent? 
why should i care about them? 
why would the wanderer want to save them? 
did they speak to the necromancer?

is this place purgatory?

does religion have a place here? 
is there any hope? 
can the wanderer succeed? 
what is he after? 
do we like him? 
did he do good deeds? 
does he represent the player? 
does he have his own character?

what are the items you can find? 
are they remnants of a lost civilisation? 
is there magic here?
